__Exercises__

1. What data types do each of these values represent?
    "A Clockwork Orange" - string  
    42 - numeric numeric (integer) 
    09/02/1945 - date (would be stored as "MM-DD-YY")
    98.7 - numeric (float)
    $15.99 - numeric (decimal)

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.
    A database would be used if the user needs to manage the data via an interface, if the data needs to be
    accessed by multiple applications, and when changes to the data need to persist beyond the end of the 
    application process.
    
    A text file would be used if the data table needs to be easily read by humans and when only a single change
    needs to be made by one single point of entry one at a time.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
    SQL is a declarative rather than a procedural language. This means the user can make the ask to retrieve or manipulate
    data without having to declare every single step in the process. For example: "get me a pizza" versus providing
    10 detailed steps on how to order pizza. 

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
    A database is basically a series of tables, which are composed of
    3 elements - columns, rows, and values. A database can have multiple tables that either standalone or can have their
    data linked.

5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
    A table is comprised of rows and columns, which house the values. Columns are vertical and their headers provide labels indicating
    what is stored inside. Rows run horizontally underneath the columns - 1 row for every entry. Where the column and row intercept is the value.

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.
    String, integer, and date are three data types that can be used in a table.

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:

    A.  SELECT date, amount
        FROM payments;

    Return the date and amount values from the payments table

    B.  SELECT amount
        FROM payments
        WHERE amount > 500;

    Return amounts over 500 from the payments table

    C.  SELECT *
        FROM payments
        WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';

    Return all rows from payee 'Mega Foods' from the payments table

Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

    A. The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
        SELECT email, sign-up date
        FROM users
        WHERE name = 'DeAndre Data';

    B. The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
        SELECT userid
        FROM users
        WHERE email = 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu';

    C. All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.
        SELECT * 
        FROM users
        WHERE userid = 4;